#+FILETAGS: introspection
#+DATE: <2016-06-11>
#+AUTHOR: Charanjit Singh
#+TITLE: Debt of my rebellion


Most of my school life I was very confused, depressed perhaps. I was a
"good boy", as they call those traumatized, obedient kids. Confusion
started turning into frustration by the end of my 10th standard. It was
the "board" class. Nonsensical pressure, corporal punishment and stupid
as fuck rules had started turning my depression into anger. So much
pressure was put on by that
[[https://web.archive.org/web/20161117224135/http://channikhabra.github.io/2016/06/11/cost-of-being-a-rebel/sasacademy.com][bloody
shithole of a school]] that one of my classmates had a mental breakdown.
A guy went complete nuts. That was the final nail in the coffin.

I felt like it was my turn next. So I rebelled. Against everything that
didn't make sense to me. Unfortunate for me, one of the foes in my
rebellion was Mathematics. The dull, complex subject whose applications
I couldn't understand. My teachers failed to convince me it was ever
going to have a practical application at all. All they could come up
with was "competitive exams need it". But that won't make the cut.

After a year of being a total brat, I finally pushed my parents to sell
a cow and buy me a computer. Computers always fascinated me, even though
I had used Computers only for a total of 10-12 hours max (occasional
15-20 minutes sittings in IT lab). I taught myself Python from the
ebooks I would download on my rare visits to cyber-cafe in nearest city.
It was a revelation. I didn't need those stupid teachers anymore; there
was no need to go through all the frustration, frowned looks and grudges
(which often lead to physical punishment) from the teachers. I could
teach myself better, faster. Unfortunate side effect of this
realization: I didn't need a shiny college.

Not going to college however was not an option. My parents were giving
me enough pain already for using computer too much (despite the fact
that I was good at school AND helped at home and farm as well). So I
went for admission in
[[https://web.archive.org/web/20161117224135/http://dgc.edu.in/][one of
those piece of shit colleges which let anyone in for a big some of
money]]. Another story for another day.

I could teach myself everything I needed. I was perhaps right about
that. But there was nobody to tell me what to learn. By the time I got
Internet I was making enough side money building software to pay for my
ever growing list of re-appears. I didn't see no math used anywhere.
When I got Internet, I started making websites. Again, no math to be
seen anywhere. The college was as shitty as they get. They never really
taught any of the syllabus (DS, algorithms etc). So I ignored them as
mumbo-jumbo schools put in their books to make money. I was making more
money than most lecturers in that college, I didn't care.

In 2014 I graduated, and went for full time freelancing. It took me some
time till I reached my limit; when I felt brute forcing my way through
problems wasn't really efficient. It was boring. It was becoming more
and more obvious that I was plateauing. I started realizing that there
are better ways to do things, and so many of them have already been
discovered.

But now the playtime was over. I was no longer in college, I had to
support myself; and my family (they're not very good financially). So I
continued freelancing. It was paying much more than most approaching
companies were offering, clients were happy, so what the hell, I
thought. I planned to save some amount in bank, and then I was to take
few months off to go back to square one and learn CS theory and
Mathemetics. I reached there 3 months ago. But then life did what it
always do. 2 big expenses came up and cleared most of my savings. So I
continued with freelancing.

But I guess it's about time I put my original plan in action. I have
started getting the good ol' limbo feeling again. I used to think it was
my indiscipline which make me feel like shit. But now I think it isn't.
Most of the time I have to discipline myself to get away from the
computer. When I start needing to force myself to code, it's because
something somewhere is wrong. I think I've hit another plateau (this
realization (that it's not indiscipline that put me in limbo) itself was
a load off my chest, but a story for another time).

I have savings to last for only a couple months without work, but I
guess that'll have to do. It's funny deja-vu situation actually. I was
in similar situation when I headed for Bangalore. Back to square one I
guess. I think it's time to put a pause on freelancing, and pay the debt
of my rebellion.
