#+DATE: <2013-10-20>
#+AUTHOR: Charanjit Singh
#+TITLE: I Eventually Managed to Leverage My Wave


#+begin_quote
  The wave I am talking about here is the period of crests and troughs
  which I have been experiencing for like always. It has always been a
  very commoving pull-back experience. Lately I have been through a
  series of change and started looking at things with a different eye.
  Here's a list of things helping me the most.
#+end_quote

My life is like riding a wave. When I am on the crest everything is
easy, I am super-curious, confident and over-flowing with energy. After
some time the energy of the crest goes away. And starts very depressing,
negative period. I feel myself to be a weight on Earth. People call them
`burn-outs'. I have read they burn-out after doing something reckless.
But I burn-out periodically. This very negative time come in circles in
my life no matter what I do.

But now I think I've eventually managed to leverage my wave. I am not
just living with it, I am using it. I started looking at the world with
a different view after I read the Theory of Positive Disintegration. I
learned it's not bad to be super-sensitive. The sadness, the pain, they
can be used for good.

Here are some of the things helping me to make something out of all the
mess my life have become, and utilize the wave.

** Abandoned commitments and my gtd.org
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: abandoned-commitments-and-my-gtd-dot-org
   :END:
I once tried to utilize the `Getting Things Done' system. It didn't work
very well for me. Although it did not fail 100% either. Thanks to it now
I am in a habit of writing down most of my thoughts (I do it in an org
file I've named gtd.org). I have made a list of all the commitments I
have made to myself, things I wanted to do but didn't, and things I want
to do in future. All the fallen dreams/commitments which have been a
psychological weight on me. One of the problems I face in troughs is
that I find nothing interesting. Like I don't want anything. Reading
through my gtd.org always give me something in which some part of me is
interested. I haven't recognized any pattern in this yet, but it
significantly decreases the trough period. Last time I found learning
e-lisp quite fascinating and that brought me out of the trough fast, and
my crest now is not that chaotic.

** Inspiration from the
`[[https://web.archive.org/web/20141119093711/http://channikhabra.github.io/2013/10/20/I-eventually-managed-to-leverage-my-wave/blog.42floors.com/100-day-goals/][100
day goals]]'
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: inspiration-from-the-100-day-goals
   :END:
I read a blog post in which an entrepreneur is talking about his system
of applying '100 day limits' to do some hard projects. He also warned
that he and his team get burnt out and need rest after that. I thought
to myself that I am going to burn out anyways, there is no stopping to
it, so why not give it a shot. May be it will do some good. And it is
working. I set a limit to finish `The Emacs-lisp intro' in seven days,
and did it. It felt good. The sense of achievement was much needed.

** Self introspection
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: self-introspection
   :END:
To me self introspection appear to be a wastage of time on crests. But
it has been a great help in darkest depths of my troughs. Would it be
studying psychology, trying to diagnose myself for some mental disorder,
or just digging through my zodiac and stuff, it help me not get lost.
It's like the last line of defense for my focus, and has always worked
till now. It give me a feel that all the chaos can be sorted out.

** Video games
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: video-games
   :END:
They have always been a source of despair actually. I waste all my time
in them when I am going through troughs. But I actually found a way to
utilize them. It came from another blog post I read. What I was doing
was that I used to play a lot of video games in troughs, and none at all
in crests. May be it created a pulling force towards troughs. Inspired
by above mentioned blog post, I now give a little time playing some
games everyday. And I am riding on my longest crest ever.

** A pinch of success
   :PROPERTIES:
   :CUSTOM_ID: a-pinch-of-success
   :END:
I used to love my computer more than I love my girlfriend (note: my
culture has molded my mind to make me a serious one woman man, don't
interpret the word 'girlfriend' as used in western-culture
relationships). I still feel fascinated about computers and programming,
but looking at my computer I have a feeling like a lost battle-ground.
There are so many things I thought I could do with it, so many I started
on it, and no one I ever finished. The wave is the one I blame.

[[https://web.archive.org/web/20141119093711/http://channikhabra.github.io/2013/10/11/the-most-beautiful-tutorial/][My
previous blog post]] was a wild success (when seen from my eyes). It
earned me many hn and reddit points, and is still bringing traffic. It
was a blow to my thought that I can't achieve anything. Many of the
self-doubting thoughts that started raising heads in my head got
chopped.

I took a lesson from it. Instead of trying to pursue my half-baked
world-changing ideas, I will spend more time doing small things. It
certainly doesn't mean I am not thinking big. I still have ideas that
will turn the world around ;-) But a pinch of success is necessary.
