#+DATE: <2014-02-24>
#+AUTHOR: Charanjit Singh
#+TITLE: One Reason Every Geek Should Blog For


Right answer is the most obvious one. Learning. Blogging helps a lot
when you are obsessed with learning and creating new things.

You learn a lot if you blog responsibly

I started
[[https://web.archive.org/web/20141121015249/http://beatofthegeek.com/][my
first blog]] in 2011 (I run two now). It was first time I got an
Internet connection of my own. I was excited and I did some posts about
few things I was trying those days. Some people read it, few praised it,
it felt nice. Then I got bored. And I stopped writing slowly. There were
people thanking me for putting my time in writing and encouraging me to
write more. But I couldn't.

I was not doing it right. I am a geek, not a blogger or writer or poet
(although I blog and
[[https://web.archive.org/web/20141121015249/http://channikhabra.github.io/2014/01/27/my-poem-pathr/][write]]
[[https://web.archive.org/web/20141121015249/http://channikhabra.github.io/2014/01/27/my-poem-kaynat/][poems]]).
Actually I recently discovered it. Writing and blogging become all so
much fun when you stop writing what you already know. Sharing experience
is cool. Actually it is only the experience that is worth writing about.
But for me it was very boring to sit down and write about what I already
knew. Then I tried writing posts as notes. Notes to remind me how to do
stuff I know I will forget in some time. But it didn't work either.

And then I started blogging with a different objective. Earlier I was
writing my experience to help people. But (un?)fortunately I am not that
good a person who would do things for helping others and enjoy it. I am
little more on the devil's side.

For about few weeks now, I am blogging for learning. Instead of writing
a post I already know, I write about things I want to know. I choose a
topic (say git), and think of a post I want to read about it (say, how
internals of .git directory work?). Then I start preparing to write it.

No I don't Google it. It might be already written. There might be 10
posts already crawling through reddit on the same topic. I don't give a
fuck. What you read in blog posts is the summary. It's the juice drawn
from sugarcane. But the real thing a geek want is knowledge. True
knowledge can only be acquired by experience. You have to live through
the process of putting a piece down in soil, and grow your experience
into the sugarcane from which you can draw the juice and put in your
post. Of course how much you learn depends all on how much work you can
put when writing a post. I found it particularly beneficial to write
about topics I have some experience in but want to go deeper. Like git.
I use it everyday, but digging deeper is not a requirement.

In my opinion, the secret sauce which make this work is responsibility.
When you write a post and you know people gonna read it, you can't write
carelessly. I can't say about others, but I feel a sense of
responsibility when I am writing about something I haven't personally
experienced long enough. It make me work extra hard.

"Great power brings great responsibility", right? The inverse is also
true (in this case at least). Great responsibility can bring great power
as well (provided you can feel it). This worked with me. It might work
with you as well (unless you have already surpassed me in terms of
slacking and procrastination).
